PROCESSING and 'leave it to Vipps' (#166)
vippsas/vipps-recurring-api: vipps-recurring-api.md

4. For all future charges, you must create a charge:
   [`POST:/recurring/v2/agreements/{agreementId}/charges`](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-recurring-api/#/Charge%20Endpoints/createCharge).
   See [Create a charge](#create-a-charge).

>    Based on the `due` set in the request, our batch job will try to process the charge on that day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Based on the `due` set in the request, we will try to process the charge on that day.
```

5. For all future charges, you must create a charge:
   [`POST:/recurring/v2/agreements/{agreementId}/charges`](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-recurring-api/#/Charge%20Endpoints/createCharge).
   See [Create a charge](#create-a-charge).

>    Based on the `due` set in the request, our batch job will try to process the charge on that day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Based on the `due` set in the request, we will try to process the charge on that day.
```

The `merchantAgreementUrl` is just a normal link to a page where the customer
can log in and manage the agreement.

> Vipps does not have any specific requirements for the security of the page, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vipps does not have any specific requirements for the security of the page, other than using https, but
```

description. The title of a charge is derived directly from
`{agreement.ProductName}` whereas the description is set per charge, i.e.
`{charge.description}`. For example, a charge on an agreement with product
name "Premier League subscription" with description "October" would look like
the following screenshot:

![Charge description example](images/charge_descriptions_example.png)

When the charge is completed (the money has been moved), the payment will
show up in the users's payment history. In the payment history a charge from
Vipps recurring payment will have a description with follow format

> `{agreement.ProductName} - {charge.description}`.

Reviewer: This is a coming feature (jan 2022, most likely), the current solution shows the sale unit name for now

Author: Ok, but the test is already out there. I only changed the formatting.

### Charge times

Charge _attempts_ are primarily made two times during the day: 07:00 and 15:00 UTC.

> Vipps may change this without notice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vipps may do extra attempts and/or change this without notice.
```

The processing of charges typically takes around one hour, however this varies and we do not guarantee any time.
This is the same both for our production and test environment.
Subsequent attempts are made according to the `retryDays` specified.

**Note:** Payments _might_ get processed any time during the day
(07:00 UTC - 23:59 UTC) due to special circumstances requiring it.

**Note:** Since payments _can_ be processed any time (07:00UTC - 23:59 UTC) it is advisable to fetch the charge at/after 00:00 UTC the day after the last retry day to be sure you get the last status.

When a charge has reached its `due` date, the status of the charge will be
`PROCESSING` until the charge is successful, for as long as the merchant has

> specified with `retryDays`.

Reviewer: We are not 100% sure we want to do this. Merchants are currently used to charges staying as DUE for the retry-period, so it might not make sense to start setting them as PROCESSING

Author: See the long(!) discussions on Slack.

specified with `retryDays`.

**Important:** Vipps does not "leak" the customers's information about insufficient funds,
blocked cards, etc. Users are informed about all such problems in Vipps,
which is the only place they can be corrected. The merchant's customer service
should always ask the user to check in Vipps if a charge has failed.

Vipps will retry the charge for the number of days specified in `retryDays`. The maximum number of retryDays is currently set to 14 days
### Charge retries

So if `retryDays=2` that would mean a maximum of 6 retries:
Two on the initial day, and two each for the subsequent days.
Vipps will retry the charge for the number of days specified in `retryDays`.
The maximum number of `retryDays` is 14.

If `retryDays=0` it will try two times on the initial day.
The status of a charge will be `PROCESSING` while Vipps is taking care of business,
from the `due` date until the charge has succeeded, or until the
`retryDays` have passed without a successful charge.
The final status will be `CHARGED` or `FAILED`.
See the API documentation for more details.

Be aware that if you check the status of the charge within the retry period, it

> might have status `FAILED`, also after the first attempt on the first and only day.

Reviewer 2: I see you're planning on removing this text from the documentation. Does it mean the discussion in #143 can be closed as well? In general, this fragment made some of us think that the charge can land in the `FAILED` state after the first attempt on the first and only day but be later on changed to `CHARGED` if the second attempt on the first and only day succeeded. 

Followed by `If a charge fails, you will get information about the reason: Charge failure reasons.` it actually sounded like we must check whether the reason is disclosed to ensure the charge is beyond repair.

Author: Yes, the "temporary" fail status has caused a lot of confusion.

We will have the experimental failureReason and failureDescription for a little while, but will provide an event log as soon as possible. 

We will also inform about attempted captures where the capture amount is higher than the user has _so far_ approved. 

In general: We want to take care of everything, we want to "leak" only the necessary details, and we are working har don an event log - which should match event logs for others APIs too.

See the newsletter for updates (when they come): https://github.com/vippsas/vipps-developers/tree/master/newsletters

### Charge states

This table has all the details for the charge states returned by
[`GET:/recurring/v2/agreements/{agreementId}/charges/{chargeId}`](https://vippsas.github.io/vipps-recurring-api/#/Charge%20Endpoints/getCharge):

| State      | Description                                                                          
|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| `PENDING`  | The charge has been created, but _may_ not yet be visible in Vipps. **Please note:** All charges due in 30 days or less are visible in Vipps.|

> | `DUE`      | The charge is visible in Vipps and will be processed on the due date. This status is just a quick transition from `PENDING` to `PROCESSING`. |

Reviewer: THe charge is DUE for up to 30 days before the due-date, so this is NOT a quick transition

Author: Fixed, thanks

| `CANCELLED` | The charge has been cancelled by the merchant. |

**IMPORTANT:** Vipps does not provide details about each charge attempt to the merchant,
but helps the user to correct any problems in Vipps.
This results in a _very_ high success rate for charges.

### Example charge flows

Scenario: Everything goes as it should: The user has money, and the charge is successful on the `due` date:
* `PENDING` -> `DUE` -> `PROCESSING` (just for the one due day)-> `CHARGED`

Scenario: The user does not have funds and `retryDays = 0`:
* `PENDING` -> `DUE` -> `PROCESSING` -> `FAILED`

Scenario: The user does not have funds on the `due` date, `retryDays = 10`, and has funds on the fifth day:
* `PENDING` -> `DUE` -> `PROCESSING` (for five days) -> `CHARGED`

**Please note:** Since charges are polled by the merchant, it is possible that
the charge status appears to "skip" a transition, e.g. moving directly from
`PENDING` to `CHARGED`, or even from `PENDING` to `REFUNDED`
depending on your systems.
The `DUE` status is not normally seen, as a charge usually only has this status
for a brief period of time, but merchants must still make sure they can handle

> this, and all other, statuses.

Reviewer: We will probably not change things so it will be like this. and DUE wil certainly NOT be a status that is normally not seen. It is the primary status a charge has for up to 30 days before the due date.

Author: Yes, sorry, thanks, fixed

![Consent card](images/share-user-info.png)

**Please note:** This operation has an "all or nothing" approach, so a user
must accept the agreement and consent to _all_ values in order to complete the
session. If a user chooses to reject the terms the agreement will not be
activated. Unless the whole flow is completed, this will be handled as a
failed agreement by the Recurring API.

## Recurring agreements with variable amount

Recurring with variable amounts offer merchants a way to charge users a different

> amount each interval, based on the users specified max amount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
amount each interval, limited upwards to the users specified max amount.
```

Instead of setting a price when drafting a new agreement, the new
`suggestedMaxAmount` field is set to what the maximum price could be each interval.
`suggestedMaxAmount` is then presented to the user when accepting an agreement,
as a suggestion that indicates the maximum price that could potentially be charged
within each interval.

The user chooses a max amount themselves when accepting the agreement, but we
recommended the user to choose the same amount as `suggestedMaxAmount`. The max
amount can at any time be changed by the user. What the user has picked as their
max amount will be available in the `GET agreement` response. Its recommended
that when you set the `suggestedMaxAmount`, that you set a realistic amount -

> as setting it to unrealistic amounts might scare of the user when they accept

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as setting it to unrealistic amounts might scare off the user when they accept
```

}
```

**Note:** The user will not be alerted by this change by Vipps.

#### Create charge

There are changes in how the interval and amount calculation works for agreements
with `variable amount`. The amount of the charge/charges in the interval can not

> be higher than either the `suggestedMaxAmount` or `maxAmount` field, based on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be higher than either the `suggestedMaxAmount` or `maxAmount` field, depending on
```

> whichever is highest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is highest. The user will be notified if a charge is created with an amount higher than their specified max amount
```

Once a day, same as without variable amount.

**Please note:** In the examples above the `intervalCount` is 1.
This can be changed as described in the [Intervals](#intervals) section.

#### Charge amount higher than the users max amount

If the created charge is above the users `maxAmount`, the charge will be set
to `PROCESSING`. If the user does not update their `maxAmount` to the same or a higher
amount than the charge, it will fail when `due` + `retryDays` is reached, and

> the status will be `FAILED`.

Reviewer: This is one of the cases where we will still be using failureReason, so I don't think this needs to be changed.

Author: I think we will use an event log.

    "transactionId": null,
    "description": "Monthly payment",
    "type": "RECURRING",
    "failureReason": "charge_amount_too_high",

>     "failureDescription": "Amount is higher than the users specified max amount"

Reviewer: As noted, we will keep failureReason for some cases, like this, because it makes sense to let the merchant know this.

Author: I think we will use an event log.

The user will also see a failure description on the charge in the app and a

> push notification will be sent if enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
push notification will be sent .
```
it is acutally not possible to disable this notification.
